Last episode I talked a bunch about
pinball user journeys and how customers
whether B2B or B TOC
bounce around right in this world of
looking at blog posts and reading news
and asking friends and going to chat GPT
and YouTube and Reddit and Google and
reading white papers all this stuff and
how different that is from the funnel
that marketers are used to. But
this also has knock-on effects on the
things that we need to think about and
solve for as marketers. Not just find
where your customers are at, right?
That's that's problem number one, but
also we need to know who that right
audience is. Sometimes we target the
wrong people and thus we come to the
wrong conclusions. Obviously, we need to
reach them in the right places. We have
to know where that is and what their
pinball like journeys look like when
they bounce around. But we also need the
right message. We need the right content
that is saying, "Hey, our brand is
associated with solving this problem
this way for these people." And if you
fit that mold, if you're one of a these
people and you're trying to solve this
problem, then we're for you. And
everyone else, not so much. When you try
to do everything, that's when you fail
at messaging. But there's a whole bunch
of problems that the classic sort of
funnel system doesn't need to worry
about nearly as much as the pinball
customer journey does. These include
product over marketing. I I can't
express to you how huge of an issue this
is. I don't know. I want to take every
CEO aside and be like, hey, that
marketing problem you think you have 70%
of the time it's a product problem. You
think that the problem is, you know,
going back to our example from last
week, uh, you're citizens bank and you
think the problem is, hey, we need to
tell more people about our high yield
savings account. But the real problem is
your high yield savings account isn't as
high yield as the 10 people, 10 banks
that all your customers are comparing
against when they go to Google and Chat
GBT and Bank Rate and Reddit and all
these other places.
There's also this siloed departments
issue where essentially because the SEO
team is doing different things from the
PPC team which is doing different things
from the social media team which is
doing different things from the PR team.
They don't convey that same consistent
message. They don't say, "Hey, we're the
bank for people looking for high yield
savings accounts, or we're the bank for
people who want, you know, a bunch of
features and tools, or we're the bank
for people who are looking for a better
alternative to their credit union
because they can't get cash out and all
these places, or they don't have a good
um, you know, promotional program for
their credit card. Whatever it is, you
you need to be the right uh product. But
then that message has to be consistent
throughout paid, throughout social,
throughout PR. Otherwise, you get lost
in these places. And these departments
have to work together to say, "Hey,
we've got this asset, this value. We
should be promoting it across these
channels. We should be doing it in these
ways. We we need to make sure we don't
have conflicts."
Third problem is all demand, no brand.
Um look in the funnel world right of
like 2010 where you were basically
looking at almost exclusively top uh you
know top of funnel was like maybe social
and blogs and then uh the middle of the
funnel was all Google and getting people
on your email list getting them to your
content marketing and then you basically
had you know conversion stage at the
bottom of that. In that world, you could
serve a lot of demand without building a
brand. And there were a ton of companies
that did and did so relatively
successfully. But today,
almost all of the rewards that Google or
ChatBT or Reddit or YouTube or any of
these channels are going to give you
comes from building a brand first. That
that marketing is essentially a reward
for doing brand marketing. Well,
building up a brand that people want to
talk about, that they're inspired to
talk about, that they know, like, and
trust. Those click-through rates, right,
which are driven by brand knowledge are
huge there. And so, you have to invest
in brand, not just demand.
Sometimes I see marketers just ignoring
entirely ignoring a key channel. Like
they're, you know, they're looking out
there, they're like, gosh, why aren't
people, you know, choosing our bank? and
it's like, well, turns out a ton of
people are going to, you know, Reddit or
they're finding information from a bunch
of podcasts that have gotten popular in
the personal finance space or they are
looking at Substack and like no one on
Substack is writing about you or
including you. And so missing those key
channels can be a huge part of this too.
If you have missed one of those things
in the pinballs, it's like you're
missing a flipper, right? And you just
you can't bounce the ball back into
play.
Attribution addiction. I've talked about
this one a bunch, but the idea that you
can attribute every single, you know,
user journey perfectly, totally
impossible. Absolutely impossible.
Mentions in a podcast, uh, 99% of PR,
um, most mentions on YouTube, most
mentions on social, especially like
video, Tik Tok, and Instagram reels.
You're just not going to get it. You're
not going to get it no matter what you
do. And being able to attribute that and
knowing which user, you know, viewed
those things before they converted,
forget about it. So, if you do
attribution, you're going to hugely
overweight to paid and to branded search
in Google, and you're going to miss
almost everything else. Another big
problem I see is in-house obsession.
This idea that like, hey, we're good at
these sort of three tactics or, you
know, uh, three parts of our funnel, so
we're not willing to outsource. We're
not willing to call up, you know, an
expert in Reddit marketing and say,
"Hey, we really need to be present in,
you know, the personal finance subreddit
and in the Philadelphia subreddit and
like, can do you have people on staff
who like contribute to Reddit regularly
and can sort of upvote the right things
and downvote the wrong things and leave
comments in a way that is not going to
be, you know, astrourfing and and false
and just blatant marketing and instead
be authentic and useful in a way that
Redditors will actually see and upvote
and it'll get visible in there. Well, if
you try to do it all inhouse, my friend,
uh you might be okay at Reddit. Maybe
maybe you already have core competency
there, but I guarantee there's channels
in this pinball world that you're not
great at. And finally, a big one I see
is sabotage by survey. The CEO or CMO or
CFO or whoever someone in leadership
says, "Hey, I want to run a survey and
see where our customers came from." And
if you only survey your existing
customers, you get two problems. One,
survey bias from people forgetting how
they actually heard about you because
people think they can remember and they
absolutely cannot. You can prove this to
yourself a million ways. But two, if you
only survey the people you've already
reached, you will never know anything
about the people you don't reach and
cannot survey.
It's just a a natural consequence.
Another big problem with surveys that I
see is people overfocus on the hey that
that last channel attribution or the
thing that they think um people perceive
to be the highest value one but not the
thing that actually was part of their
consideration stage. And so I I cannot
recommend this enough. You need to layer
in uh real audience behavior at scale
from from like a clickstream provider or
um if you're if you're a smaller
business, Spark Toro can be helpful for
this. Uh and also consider doing some
big scale market research as well. I
know it's expensive. I know it's
timeconuming, but it can be really
worthwhile because otherwise you're
going to mess out on this. Now you solve
these and you are ready to win at
pinball marketing.